Implement the Ballerina slack connector (#1)
ballerina-platform/module-slack: src/slack/Module.md

# Module Slack

> Ballerina Slack connector allows you to work with slack conversations/channels, users, user groups, files and messages through the Slack Web API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ballerina Slack connector allows you to work with Slack `conversations/channels`, users, user groups, files, and messages through the Slack Web API.
```

> It handles OAuth 2.0 authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It handles the OAuth 2.0 authentication.
```

> There are basically 5 clients provided by Ballerina to interact with different API groups in Slack Web API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 5 clients provided by Ballerina to interact with different API groups in the Slack Web API.
```

> 1. **slack:Client** - This client is the top most client in the slack module. This can be used to get the relevant client associated with the operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **slack:Client** - This client is the top-most client in the Slack module. This can be used to get the relevant client associated with the operation
```

> 1. **slack:Client** - This client is the top-most client in the Slack module. This can be used to get the relevant client associated with the operation

Author: In here slack is the module name, we can't make the 'S' capital. Applicable to other places as well. Hence not applying the change.

that you wish to execute.

> 2. **slack:ChatClient** - Chat client can be used in messaging related operations. For example: post messages on slack, delete messages,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **slack:ChatClient** - Chat client can be used in messaging-related operations. For example,  post messages on slack, delete messages,
```

> send attachments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
send attachments etc.
```

> 3. **slack:ConversationClient** - This client can be used in conversations/channels related operations. For example: create conversations,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **slack:ConversationClient** - This client can be used in `conversations/channels`-related operations. For example, create conversations,
```

> join a conversation, add users to a conversation, archive/unarchive conversations etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
join a conversation, add users to a conversation, archive/unarchive conversations, etc.
```

> 4. **slack:UserClient** - This client can be used in users/user groups related operations. For example: get user information etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **slack:UserClient** - This client can be used in `users/user groups`-related operations. For example, get user information etc.
```

> 5. **self.fileClient** - This client can be used in file related operations in slack. For example: upload files, delete files, get file information etc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. **slack:FileClient** - This client can be used in file related operations in slack. For example: upload files, delete files, get file information etc
```

> 5. **self.FileClient** - This client can be used in file related operations in slack. For example: upload files, delete files, get file information etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **self.FileClient** - This client can be used in file-related operations in Slack. For example, upload files, delete files, get file information, etc.
```

## Compatibility
|                     |    Version     |
|:-------------------:|:--------------:|

> | Ballerina Language  | 1.1.4          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Ballerina Language  | 1.2.0          |
```

## Sample

**Creating a simple slack application and obtaining tokens**

1. Create a new Slack App on [api.slack.com](https://api.slack.com/apps?new_granular_bot_app=1).
2. Type in your app name.

> 3. Select the workspace you'd like to build your app on. You can create a work space [here](https://slack.com/get-started#create) if you don't have one already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the workspace you would like to build your app in. You can create a [workspace] (https://slack.com/get-started#create) if you don't have one already.
```

> 4. Give your app permission. [Scopes](https://api.slack.com/scopes) allow your application to do operations in your workspace. Navigate to `OAuth & Permissions` on the sidebar to add scopes to your slack application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Grant your app the required permissions. [Scopes](https://api.slack.com/scopes) allow your application to do operations in your workspace. Navigate to `OAuth & Permissions` on the sidebar to add scopes to your Slack application. 
```

> 5. After giving permission, install the application in your workspace by clicking `Install App to Workspace`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After granting the permissions, click `Install App to Workspace` to install the application in your workspace.
```

> 6. Next, authorize the app for the user permissions. Click `Allow` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Next, click `Allow` to authorize the app for the user permissions. 
```

> 7. Copy and save your token. This will be used to communicate with slack's platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Copy and save your token. This will be used to communicate with Slack's platform.
```

**Create Slack client**

> First, import the `ballerinax/slack` module into the Ballerina project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, execute the below command to import the `ballerinax/slack` module into the Ballerina project.
```

```ballerina
import ballerinax/slack;
```
Instantiate the `slack:Client` by giving OAuth2 authentication details in the `slack:Configuration`. 

> You can define the Slack configuration and create the top most Slack client as mentioned below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define the Slack configuration and create the top-most Slack client as follows. 
```

```ballerina
slack:Configuration slackConfig = {
    oauth2Config: {
        accessToken: "<token-here>",
        refreshConfig: {
            clientId: "<CLIENT_ID>",
            clientSecret: "<CLIENT_SECRET>",
            refreshToken: "<REFRESH_TOKEN>",
            refreshUrl: "<REFRESH_URL>"
        }
    }
};

> // Create the top most Slack client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Create the top-most Slack client.
```

slack:Client slackClient = new(slackConfig);
```

> **Slack operations related to Converations/Channels**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Slack operations-related to `Converations/Channels`**
```

> The `listConversation` remote function can be used to list all channels in a slack team. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `listConversation` remote function can be used to list all channels in a Slack team. 
```

```ballerina
slack:ConversationClient conv = slackClient.getConversationClient();

> var response = conv->listConversations();

Reviewer 3: Better to properly handle _var_ type as mentioned above.

if (response is Conversations) {    
    io:println("Conversations " + response);
} else {

>     io:println(response.detail()?.message.toString());

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    io:println("Error message: " + response.detail()?.message.toString());
```

}
```

**Slack operations related to chat messages**

The `postMessage` remote function can be used to send a message to a slack channel. 

```ballerina
slack:ChatClient chatClient = slackClient.getChatClient();
var response = chatClient->postMessage(channelName, "Hello Channel");
if (response is string) {    
    io:println("Message posted to channel " + response);
} else {

>     io:println(response.detail()?.message.toString());

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    io:println("Error message: " + response.detail()?.message.toString());
```

}
```

**Slack operations related to users**

The `getUserInfo` remote function can be used to get information about a user. 

```ballerina
slack:UserClient userClient = slackClient.getUserClient();
var response = userClient->getUserInfo(userName);
if (response is User) {    
    io:println("User id " + response.id);
} else {

>     io:println(response.detail()?.message.toString());

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    io:println("Error message: " + response.detail()?.message.toString());
```

}
```

**Slack operations related to files**

The `uploadFile` remote function can be used to upload or create a file. 

```ballerina
slack:FileClient fileClient = slackClient.getFileClient();
var response = fileClient->uploadFile(filePath, channelName);
if (response is FileInfo) {    
    io:println("File id " + response.id);
} else {

>     io:println(response.detail()?.message.toString());

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    io:println("Error message: " + response.detail()?.message.toString());
```
